# MrBeastDataAnalysis
Analyzing the Kaggle dataset by Rob Mulla (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/robikscube/mrbeast-youtube-stats-daily) on Mr. Beast's Youtube videos.
Final Project Write Up - MrBeast Videos for CSCI51p SP24 at Pomona College

When looking at a data set of Mr. Beast Youtube video analytics the first question I attempted to answer was: do longer videos have higher comment counts (possibly because there is more to talk about)? The way I answered that question was by creating a scatterplot that visualized the number of comments (y-axis) compared to the duration of a video (x-axis). I also calculated the correlation coefficient. I excluded videos with durations over 1,000 seconds, because there were very few of them and most of them were well over 1,000 which made the graph very difficult to read. From the data shown in the graph, there appears to be a slight correlation between duration and number of comments. I would say there is a slight positive correlation shown between the two variables. From the correlation coefficient, it suggests that there is a weak positive correlation between the duration of the video and the number of comments. The answer to the initial question would be yes, but not certainly nor strongly. 
My second question was: over time how has the length of Mr. Beast’s videos changed? Is there any close correlation with view count, or do both just change over time unrelated to each other? The way I did this was by creating three graphs: one of duration over time, one of views over time, and one of duration compared to views. I also calculated the correlation coefficient of each of these relationships. From the graphs, it appears that each of the relationships have a positive correlation with the second graph having the strongest correlation. As shown by the correlation coefficients, all three relationships have a positive correlation, with duration over time being weakly positive, views over time being moderately positive, and duration compared to views being moderately positive as well. Views over time had the strongest positive correlation of the three relationships. To answer the initial question, the two relationships looking over time do show a change, and it appears that this change is within relation to each other.
My final question was: do videos that have “$” in the title have higher view counts? How about win, !, vs, or survive? To answer this question I created a bar graph showing the average view counts for all titles then titles containing each of the words/characters. From the data $, win, !, and vs all appeared to have lower average view counts compared to all videos. However, after calculating the error bars, this data does not appear to be statistically significant. In contrast, survive had a statistically significantly higher average view count than all videos. The data suggests that including the word “survive” in a Mr. Beast’s video title will yield a higher view count. 
